Utah County Attorney

Utah County

Contact us

Utah County Attorney's Office Website

Administration

Investigations

Criminal Division

Civil Division

Community Services

Log in

If you would like copies of records possessed by the County Attorney's Office you must submit a written GRAMA request (“GRAMA” stands for the Government Records Access and Management Act). Forms can be obtained here or at the County Attorney's Office and must be submitted to the County Attorney's Office by mail, email or fax:

Contact Info

Mail

Utah County Attorney's Office Attn: GRAMA Officer 100 East Center Street Suite 2100 Provo, Utah 84606

Email

UCAORecords@utahcounty.gov

Fax

801-851-8009

How to Submit

Requests must be accompanied by a copy of your photo identification.

You may also use the State of Utah Open Records Portal to request Utah County records.

Anyone can submit a GRAMA request and the County GRAMA officer responds to all requests. The County GRAMA officer determines if records are public, private or protected.

There will be a fee if the GRAMA officer grants the request and it is for more than a few pages.

Juvenile court case files are protected and are generally not released. However, parents of juveniles accused or convicted of an offense may request a copy of the incident report which will most often be released after personal information is redacted.

Adult criminal case files are private records and only released to the individuals authorized by statute. Most often some of the information in these files will be released to victims or witnesses after personal information is redacted.

Online GRAMA Request Form

Utah County Attorney's Office Fees for Providing Records under GRAMA.

As authorized by GRAMA, Utah Code § 63-2-203, a governmental entity may charge a reasonable fee to cover the governmental entity's actual cost of duplicating a record:

Copies

Standard size, non-color white copies

$0.25 per page

Standard size, color copies

$0.50 per page

11 x 17 copies

$0.50 per page

Other sized copies

Actual cost

USBs and Associated Services

Data or media storage device

$15 (up to 16 Gb

Other media/supplies

Actual Cost

Mailing and Shipping Costs

Staff mail preparation time

$2.00 (plus actual mailing cost if greater than $2.00

Certifying A Document

Certification of a document

$2.00 per certification

Other Services

Other services

Actual cost

Staff Time

(includes time required to search, compile and otherwise prepare to provide a record)

Actual cost, not to exceed salary of lowest paid employee who, in the discretion of the records custodian, has the necessary skill and training to perform the request under Utah Code § 63-2-203(2)(b).

Staff time is calculated hourly when preparing and distributing digital documents. This includes the staff time necessary to search and retrieve, review, classify and redact documents.

Staff time for photocopying, faxing and creating the USB Drive is included in the fee for those items.

Copyright © 2022 Utah County Government | All Rights Reserved