COVID-19/Coronavirus  »  COVID-19 Vaccination

COVID-19 Vaccination

Anyone age 6-months and older can be vaccinated.NO APPOINTMENT NEEDED.

Please hydrate and eat well before your vaccination.

Minors must be accompanied by their parent or guardian, or, if another adult accompanies them, the minor can’t receive the vaccine unless the parent or guardian has either signed the COVID-19 vaccine form or gives permission over the phone.

Booster Shot Information:

Please visit this CDC webpage for guidance concerning booster vaccinations.

If you qualify and want a Pfizer or Moderna dose as your booster, you can walk into any UCHD clinic and request a shot, no appointment is necessary.

If you qualify and would like a Johnson & Johnson dose as your booster, visit Vaccines.Gov. We recommend calling ahead to the facility you find to verify they have the shot in stock.

Guidance for immunocompromised.

Individuals who are immunocompromised have specific guidance.

People are considered to be moderately or severely immunocompromised if they have:

Been receiving active cancer treatment for tumors or cancers of the blood

Received an organ transplant and are taking medicine to suppress the immune system

Received a stem cell transplant within the last 2 years or are taking medicine to suppress the immune system

Moderate or severe primary immunodeficiency (such as DiGeorge syndrome, Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome)

Advanced or untreated HIV infection

Active treatment with high-dose corticosteroids or other drugs that may suppress your immune response

People should talk to their healthcare provider about their medical condition, and whether getting an additional dose is appropriate for them.

Visit the CDC website to learn more.

Track case counts and vaccination rates here:

Case Counts

Cost of Vaccine

The COVID-19 vaccine is available at no cost.  You do not need to have health insurance in order to receive the vaccine.

If you are planning to receive additional vaccines on the same day, you will need to bring your health insurance card for those vaccines.

Preparing for a COVID-19 Vaccine

Before you come for your vaccination, please hydrate and eat well.

The CDC does not recommend taking ibuprofen, aspirin, or acetaminophen BEFORE your vaccination to try prevent side effects. However, if you do take these types of medications regularly for other reasons, please continue taking them prior to vaccination.

If you have questions about medications you are taking, please contact your primary care physician.

Acceptable Forms of ID

When you come for your vaccine, you will be asked to show ID. Acceptable forms of ID include driver license, government issued ID, birth certificate, foreign issued government ID, passport, student ID, expired passport/driver license, or utility bill.

For those who are under the age of 18, no ID is required. However, minors need to be accompanied by an adult who must present their ID.

How to Receive the COVID-19 Vaccine

NO APPOINTMENT NEEDED

The COVID-19 vaccine is available through Utah County Health Department at the following locations:

American Fork UCHD Clinic (Indoor clinic)

Payson UCHD Clinic (Indoor clinic, Third Floor)

Provo UCHD Clinic (Indoor clinic)

Protect Yourself

COVID-19 is a new disease. We learn more every day about the virus that causes COVID-19 and the best ways to stop the pandemic. We know this can make it hard to know what to do. If you can’t find what you are looking for, call the state Coronavirus Hotline at

385-273-7878 (Monday – Friday, 7am-7pm, Saturday, 7am-3pm, Closed Sunday) or use the webchat feature on their website.

COVID-19 Vaccine Information Sheets

Moderna Recipient and Caregiver Fact Sheet 04-18-2023

Download

Pfizer Recipient and Caregiver Fact Sheet 04-28-2023

Download

COVID-19 Vaccine Forms

Immunization Encounter Form – English

Download

Immunization Check-in Form- Spanish Fillable

Download

Updates on vaccine information will be posted on our website, as well as UCHD social media (Facebook, Twitter, Instagram).