Immunizations

How Do I Find My Records?

What To Bring

Travel

Tuberculosis (TB) Testing

Immunization Hours and Locations

Clinic Hours for those requiring Travel Immunizations

Closed Holidays

COVID-19 Vaccine Clinic Information

Mpox Vaccine Clinic Information

Flu Vaccine

Children’s Immunization Information

Adult Immunization Information

Request Copy of Immunization Records

Insurances Accepted

Notice of Privacy Practices

Vaccine Information Statements (VIS)

Billing Information

Check-in Form for clinic visit

Hours and Locations

Provo Clinic

151 South University Avenue Suite 1900Provo UT, 84601Phone: 801-851-7025

Get Directions

Hours:

COVID-19 Vaccines given during office hours

We are a walk-in clinic. Wait times may vary. No appointments.

Monday, Tuesday, and Friday:   8 a.m. – 4:30 p.m.

Wednesday:  8 a.m. – 7 p.m.

Thursday:  9 a.m. – 4:30 p.m.

Travel vaccines and information will only be offered until 3 PM except on Wednesday until 5 PM

Note: No TB skin tests will be done on Wednesdays after 4 p.m. or all day on Thursdays.

American Fork Clinic

599 South 500 EastAmerican Fork, UT  84003Phone: 801-851-7331

Enter the parking lot from the South side off of 620 South across from Taco Bell

The door to the building is on the West side across from Carl’s Jr at the top of the stairs

Note- the former street entrance on the west side off of 500 E has been closed by UDOTGet Directions

Hours:

COVID-19 Vaccines given during office hours

We are a walk-in clinic. Wait times may vary. No appointments.

Monday – Thursday 8:00 a.m. – 4:30 p.m.

Friday 8:30 a.m. – 4:30 p.m.

Travel vaccines and information will only be offered until 3 PM

Note: No TB skin tests will be done on Thursdays or after 4 PM Wednesdays

Rabies vaccine is not offered in the American Fork Clinic

Payson Clinic

285 North 1250 East, 3rd floor

(in Wasatch Mental Health Building)Payson, UT  84651Phone: 801-851-7351

Get Directions

Hours:

COVID-19 vaccines given during office hours

We are a walk-in clinic. Wait times may vary. No appointments.

Monday – Friday   8:00 – 11:30  a.m., and       1:00 – 4:30 p.m.

Travel vaccines and information will only be offered 8:00-10:00AM and 1:00-3:00 PM.

Note: No TB skin tests will be done on Thursdays or after 4 PM Wednesdays

Cholera vaccine and Rabies vaccine are not offered in the Payson Clinic

Flu Shots

Flu vaccine currently not available. The Fall 2023 vaccine is expected to be in stock by early September.

Notification of availability will be posted here. When available, flu vaccine is given during normal clinic hours.

Children’s Immunizations

All routine preventive vaccines are available for infants and older, including kindergarten, 7th grade, and older

Click here for Hours and Locations

See what are the recommended vaccines for your child:

Childhood vaccine schedule

School Requirements

Vaccines for Children program (VFC)

Provides vaccines for uninsured or otherwise qualified children age 18 and younger. The vaccines are provided at no cost, but an administration fee is charged.

For children who are underinsured (i.e.-they have insurance, but it does not cover vaccines- foreign exchange students, catastrophic insurance), we encourage you to go to Mountainlands Community Health Center in Provo.

For Information regarding the VFC program:

CDC VFC Program information

Utah Department of Health

Information for parents

Exemptions

If you would like to obtain a personal or religious immunization exemption for your child, please go to the following website and complete the immunization exemption module:

Exemption module

If you need a medical immunization exemption you will also need to complete the immunization exemption module at the link above and obtain a written notice signed by a licensed healthcare provider.

After completing the immunization exemption module, your immunization exemption certificate will be sent to the email address you provide. You will need to print the certificate and provide it to your child’s school at registration.

Newborn Screening (PKU)

The state of Utah requires Newborn Screening tests. Please click on the link button below for more information.

Utah State Newborn Screening

Adult Immunizations

We have routine immunizations available. See which vaccines are recommended for you:

What vaccines do I need?

Adult immunization schedule

Billing

You may reach our Billing Office at 801-851-7042

2023 Office Closed for Holidays

New Year’s Day                    January 2 (recognized)

Martin Luther King Day       January 16

President’s Day                    February 20

Memorial Day                      May 29

Juneteenth Day                   June 19

Independence Day              July 4

Pioneer Day                        July 24

Labor Day                           September 4

Veteran’s Day                      November 10 (recognized)

Thanksgiving Day               November 23

Day after Thanksgiving       November 24

Day before Christmas         December 22 (recognized)

Christmas Day                     December 25

To request a copy of your immunization records:

If you had your vaccinations done at the Utah County Health Department clinic, you may request a record by printing and completing this form. If you had your vaccinations from any other provider in Utah, it may have been put into the Utah State Immunization Information System. Not all immunizing providers in Utah submit information to Usiis, so there is a chance this database may not contain a complete record. Because of this, we cannot guarantee a record is complete if we print your record from the Utah state database.

Release of Information form

Formulario de Divulgación de Información

Immunization Check-in Form

Immunization Check-in Form – English

Download

Immunization Check-in Form- Spanish Fillable

Download