Home

Events

4-H

Animals

Open Class

Vendors

Schedule

Tickets

Volunteer

Jr Fair Board

Contact

History

The Utah County Fair is held at the Spanish Fork Fairgrounds • 475 South Main • Spanish Fork • Utah

The Utah County Fair is held at the Spanish Fork Fairgrounds475 South Main • Spanish Fork • Utah

The Dates for the 2023 Utah County Fair are:

Wednesday August 2nd - 11:00 am to 10:00 pm (Sorting/Penning)
				
				Thursday August 3rd - 2:00 pm to 10:00 pm    
				
				Friday August 4th - 12:00 pm to 10:00 pm       
				
				Saturday August 5th - 10:00 am to 10:00 pm

Thank you UCCU for being our Presenting Sponsor!

Things to Remember

Utah County Fair Sponsors

Presenting Sponsor

Event Ticket Sponsor

Healthy Hearing Sponsor

Volunteer Shirt Sponsor

Video Board Sponsor

Derby Wrecking Ball Sponsor

Open Class Sponsor

Western Night Rodeo Sponsor

Monster Truck Sponsor

Demolition Derby Sponsor

Tractor Pull Sponsor

Small Animals Sponsor

LEGO Sponsor

Open Class Sponsor

Jr Livestock Show Sponsor

Family Fun Stage Sponsor

4H Open Class Sponsor

General Fair Sponsor

Band Stage Sponsor

Food Court Sponsor

Interactive Agriculture Experience Sponsor

Open Versatility Horse Sponsor

Kids Corner Sponsor

Animal Care

Animals are at the heart of the Utah County Fair and their care and welfare are a top priority. Utah County was founded by pioneers who carved out towns, cities and farms from the high desert of the Great Basin. The Utah County Fair is a celebration of that heritage that is
		grounded in over a 125 years of tradition in agriculture. Even today Utah County remains the number one county for agricultural gross receipts in the state of Utah.
		The Utah County Fair is passionate and vigilant about animal care. During our annual fair, hundreds of animals take part in our various exhibitions, educational programs and competitions.

The Utah County Fair Livestock Show consults with professional veterinary advisors. We are committed to being proactive in the protection of the animals involved in the fair. This year we will involve animal care professionals more extensively in fair activities and will ask them to monitor and look at how any activity is impacting livestock care, stress, health and handling. We will work to create an open dialogue with all interested parties.

During the fair operating dates, the Utah County Fair we will endeavor to work with local veterinarians to monitor the well-being of all animals involved in the fair.

Settings

For more info, click any label.


					Passionately built by 

Caleb Miller.