Utah County Sheriff's Office

Corrections Division

Administration

Jail Information
                  
                
                
                  
                    
                      
                        Booking Process
                      
                    
                  
                  
                    
                      
                        Inmate Search
                      
                    
                  
                  
                    
                      
                        Inmate Services
                      
                    
                  
                  
                    
                      
                        Jail Industries
                      
                    
                  
                  
                    
                      
                        Jail Programs
                      
                    
                  
                  
                    
                      
                        Orientation
                      
                    
                  
                  
                    
                      
                        Transitional Resources
                      
                    
                  
                  
                    
                      
                        Visitation FAQs

Additional Services
                  
                
                
                  
                    
                      
                        Booking
                      
                    
                  
                  
                    
                      
                        DRT
                      
                    
                  
                  
                    
                      
                        GPS
                      
                    
                  
                  
                    
                      
                        Housing
                      
                    
                  
                  
                    
                      
                        Medical
                      
                    
                  
                  
                    
                      
                        Support Services
                      
                    
                  
                  
                    
                      
                        Transportation
                      
                    
                  
                  
                    
                      
                        Work Diversion
                      
                    
                  
                  
                    
                      
                        24/7 Sobriety

Utah County Arrested Person Search

Enhanced Search Login

*Please note: As per Sheriff's Office policy and practice, booking
                        information will be available 24 hours AFTER a person has been booked**

Search By Name

(Example: ADAMS, B)

Please enter as much of the name as possible to limit the search time. Searching on a name will
                          search all inmates, past and present in the last two years.

Search By Arrested Date

(Example: 01-02-2023)

All inmates currently tracked by the Sheriff's Office

Click here for a list of all inmates currently being tracked by Utah County Sheriff's Office.

Interested in Utah County Jail Inmate Statistics?

Inmate Statistics

Visiting an inmate?

Please review the Jail Visitation Frequently Asked
                        Questions.

Additional Information

You can use this web site to search for people by name or an arrest date. After entering the name
                      of the individual you are searching for, you will find that it lists each time that person was
                      booked into our facility for up to one year. When someone is arrested, their booking information and
                      picture will remain on the web site for 30 days. After 30 days the picture will be dropped, but the
                      remaining booking information will stay on the web site for one year, at which time it will also
                      drop from the site.

If you click on the name link, you will be taken to that actual booking. It will contain an arrest
                      date, booking date, booking number, release date if applicable and the arresting agency. The status
                      will be an indicator of whether or not they are currently in the facility.

For additional information about the jail, click on the link below:

Utah County Jail Orientation for Inmate Family and Friends

Tweets by UCSO

Follow Us on Twitter

Contact Information

Main Office

Judicial Support Bureau

County Jail