Utah County Sheriff's Office

Administration Division

Menu
                  
                
                
                  
                    
                      
                        Administration
                      
                    
                  
                  
                    
                      
                        Firearms
                      
                    
                  
                  
                    
                      
                        Police Conduct
                      
                    
                  
                  
                    
                      
                        RAD Kids
                      
                    
                  
                  
                    
                      
                        Records
                      
                    
                  
                  
                    
                      
                        Training
                      
                    
                  
                  
                    
                      
                        Fire Department

r.a.d KIDS  |  R.A.D for Women

For nearly 20 years, the Utah County Sheriff's Office has offered personal safety and self-defense
                    classes to residents of Utah County. These courses are offered in affiliation and partnership with
                    the national leaders of personal safety and self-defense programs - R.A.D. Systems of Self
                      Defense and r.a.d.KIDS Personal Empowerment and Safety Education.

There are several factors that make these programs unique. Each offers a comprehensive curriculum
                    teaching empowering life skills, risk-reducing strategies, and physical resistance/defense skills.
                    Additionally, participants have an opportunity to practice physical techniques in a controlled
                    dynamic simulation at the end of each course. Each class is an informative and empowering
                    opportunity. The curriculum is taught and learned at a level of "go at your own pace" allowing the
                    course to benefit participants of all ages, sizes, and health conditions.

The courses for children, women, and men, are taught by well-trained certified instructors who are
                    sworn and civilian employees of the Utah County Sheriff's Office.

Take A Class

To view class schedules offered by the Utah County Sheriff's Office and register for a course,
                    please visit the scheduling
                      page.

Additional Information / Group Presentations:

Email: rad@utahcounty.gov or JennR@utahcounty.gov.

Phone: 801-851-4335

Course Descriptions

r.a.d.KIDS

R.A.D. for Women

r.a.d.KIDS

This class is open for children age 5 - 12.

As a nonprofit organization, the radKIDS Personal Empowerment Safety Education program is
                          dedicated to providing children with proven and effective life-saving skills by teaching them
                          how to "Resist Aggression Defensively."

For almost 2 decades, this national program has been able to reach thousands of children
                          across North America and has documented many successes in the prevention of violence and harm
                          to children. Through radKIDS, children become empowered and learn to replace the fear,
                          confusion and panic of dangerous situations with confidence, personal safety skills, and
                          self-esteem. This comprehensive class encompasses a multitude of personal safety topics
                          specifically designed for children and is taught through a hands-on, activity based
                          curriculum.

https://www.radkids.org/

R.A.D. for Women

This class is open for females age 12 and up.

"The Rape Aggression Defense System is a program of realistic self-defense tactics and
                          techniques for women. The R.A.D. System is a comprehensive, women-only course that begins with
                          awareness, prevention, risk reduction and risk avoidance, while progressing on to the basics
                          of hands-on defense training." Each session of classes at the UCSO also includes training and
                          education in keychain defense (Kubaton).

http://www.rad-systems.com/rad_basic.html

RAD Coordinator 
                         Jennifer Robinson

JennR@utahcounty.gov

Tweets by UCSO

Follow Us on Twitter

Contact Information

Main Office

Judicial Support Bureau

County Jail