Green RiverRest under a canopy of cottonwood trees or accept the challenge of a nine-hole golf course on the banks of the Green River. The park is a starting point for boaters adventuring through Labyrinth and Stillwater canyons.  Annual events include the 184-mile Friendship Cruise and Melon Days.

Sand HollowWith its warm, blue waters and red sandstone landscape, Utah's newest state park is also one of its most popular. Boat and fish on Sand Hollow Reservoir, explore and ride the dunes of Sand Mountain on an off-highway vehicle, then RV or tent camp in the new campground.

Wasatch MountainEnjoy Wasatch Mountain State Park year-round. Camp in the Pine Creek Campground, reserve a tee time at one of the four popular 18-hole golf courses or hike, bike, ATV or horseback ride on miles of mountain trails. In winter months, ski, snowshoe or snowmobile through the alpine terrain.

Programs

Off-Highway Vehicle Information

Boating Information

Park Passes

Trending

Events Calendar

Pay Day-Use Fees

#ResponsibleRecreation

Jobs

Boat Ramp Conditions

Fire Restrictions

Contact Us

News & Blog

Park Conditions

2023 Annular Eclipse

State Parks Field Guide – English

State Parks Field Guide – Spanish

Recent News

Colorado Man Dead After OHV Accident at Coral Pink Sand Dunes State Park
	Posted on: September 3rd, 2023

Autumn Adventures Await: Planning Your Utah State Park Getaways for September
	Posted on: August 28th, 2023

Child Dies After Propeller Incident at Echo State Park
	Posted on: August 13th, 2023

From Overgrown to Outstanding: Wallsburg Trail Clean-Up at Deer Creek State Park
	Posted on: August 10th, 2023

Discover

Not sure which park to visit? Discover the beauty and history found in Utah's many State Parks

Find A Park

Play

You will find a wide variety of great activities available at our Utah State Parks

Browse Activities

Reserve

Don't forget to reserve your campsite from our 2000 Utah State Park campsites

Make A Reservation

Where Does Your Dollar Go When You Purchase a Utah State Parks Annual Pass?

					
	Posted on: July 13th, 2023
					
						When you purchase an annual pass, campsite or day-use pass for Utah State Parks, you’re gaining access to breathtaking natural landscapes and unforgettable experiences. But did you know that you’re also directly contributing to the betterment of these beautiful parks? The Utah Division of State Parks takes great pride in its self-sufficiency, meaning that every […]
					
					 Continue Reading