Community Development

Department Home

Business License Home

Business License Home

Planning
            
                Planning Home Page
                Planning Commission
                Board of Adjustment
                Utah County Land Use Ordinance
                Utah County General Plan

Building
            
                Forms
                FAQ

Business License
            
                Procedure
                Renewals
                Defining Code
                Business Closure
                Business License Search

Fire Marshal

Links
            
                Contact Us
                About Us
                FAQ
                Forms
                Our Staff

Location


							51 South University Avenue

Office Hours


							8 AM to 5 PM

County Holidays

Important Phone Numbers / Emails


							Business Info : 801-851-8242

ComDev@UtahCounty.gov

Thank you for your interest in locating your business in unincorporated Utah County. We wish you well as you pursue your desires toward a successful and prosperous business.

A valid Utah County business license is required for all businesses that are located within the unincorporated limits of Utah County. There are exceptions for some home  occupation, agricultural and non-profit businesses.

If your business base location is within a city, you must contact that city for a license.

A business license is the means whereby Utah County Government grants permission to engage is a business activity at a specific location within the County. The definition of a business means any enterprise carried on for the purpose of gain or economic profit, except for the acts of employees rendering services to employers.

A local license provides assurance that the business location is properly zoned for the activity being conducted. Licensing also verifies compliance with state and local codes. This helps ensure the well being of employees and citizens.

Licensed Businesses Database

Search currently licensed businesses.

Licensing Procedure

Steps to a Business License

Renewals

How to renew your license.

Fees

Utah County Fee Schedule

Defining Code

Liquor Licenses, Business Regulations

Business Closure

Required notification upon closing of business.