Marriage licenses

Clerk Home

Marriage

Marriage Licenses

How to Apply

Online Application

Instructions:

Complete your marriage license application online, verify your identity online, and pay online by credit card or debit card. The license fee is non-refundable and includes one certified paper copy (mailed after the wedding) and digital certificates with blockchain certification.

Read the confirmation email containing the information about using your license and officiant worksheet.

Forward your unique URL and/or QR code to your officiant so they can finalize your wedding certificate on line.

If requested, print off the copy of the officiant worksheet to give to the individual performing your ceremony.

Be sure your officiant follows the instructions in your email and on the worksheet for completing and submitting your license online to Utah County.

Can I Still Apply in Person?

If you need to pay your license fee by cash or check or if you would just prefer to complete your application in person, you can come into the Utah County Passport and Marriage License Office during regular business hours.

Schedule of Marriage License Fees

$70.00 - Base License Fee w/o Discount

$50.00 - Base License Fee with Discount*

$80.00 - License Fee w/Donation w/o Discount

$60.00 - License Fee w/Donation and Discount*

International Licensing Fees

$145.00 - Base License Fee w/o Discount

$125.00 - Base License Fee with Discount*

$155.00 - License Fee w/Donation w/o Discount

$135.00 - License Fee w/Donation and Discount*

The current Base Marriage License Fee is made up of the following:

$40.00 - Utah County Marriage License Fee

Included - Two Certified Copies of Completed Marriage License (a paper copy and a digital copy)

$10.00 - Children's Defense Trust Fund-State Required Fee

$20.00 - Utah Marriage Commission-State Required Fee*

$10.00 - Victims of Domestic Violence Donation-Optional State Fee

$15.00 - International Address Processing Fee-International Ship To Addressess Only

$60.00 - International Shipping Fee-All Certificates sent via FedEx with Tracking for all International Ship To Addresses

This fee can be waived by completing pre-marital education or counseling. To learn how to get the discount, visit the Utah Marriage Commission Website. The discount also applies to anyone that completes their application in-person at the Utah County Passport and Marriage License Office.

Utah Marriage Commission

The purpose of the Utah Marriage Commission is to encourage a healthy culture of strong marriage and stable families. The Commission promotes programs that educate individuals and couples on how to achieve strong and successful relationships between spouses and parents and children.

For free marriage resources including assessments, webinars, courses, handbooks, and podcasts, visit StrongerMarriage.org

Couples who apply for their marriage license online are assessed a $20 fee to the Utah Marriage Commission. This fee can be waived by completing pre-marriage education. Learn about the marriage education discount.

When To Apply

MARRIAGE LICENSES EXPIRE 32 DAYS FROM THE DATE OF ISSUE! Licenses can be used immediately upon purchase, but must be used before/up to their expiration date. An expired license is no longer valid and a couple would need to get a new license to get married.
                                                
                                                IT IS HIGHLY RECOMMENDED that a couple wait until 10 to 14 days prior to their marriage date to apply for their license. If you apply for a license too early and your wedding has to be delayed, you will have to pay to get a new license if your current one expires before your new date. There are no extensions or refunds possible under Utah State law.

A license issued in Utah County may be used anywhere within the State of Utah.

A government issued picture ID that shows a date of birth is required for all applicants.

If a divorce has been granted within the last 60 days, you need to provide a certified copy of the divorce decree.

For information on a divorce filed in the State of Utah, contact the District Court that divorce was filed in. Directory of Utah District Courts

Send Me A Reminder

Frequently Asked Questions

Who May Perform a Marriage Ceremony?

The authority to officiate marriages is governed by Utah Code 30-1-6. The following list is a summary of the code:

An individual 18 years old or older who is authorized by a religious denomination to solemnize a marriage

A Native American spiritual advisor

The governor

The lieutenant governor

A mayor of a municipality or county executive

A justice, judge, or commissioner of a court of record

A judge of a court not of record of the state

A judge or magistrate of the United States

The county clerk of any county in the state or the county clerk's designee as authorized by Section 17-20-4

A senator or representative of the Utah Legislature

A judge or magistrate who holds office in Utah when retired, under rules set by the Supreme Court

Minors

Individuals requesting a marriage license who are 16 or 17 years of age.
(Note: The age difference between both parties to the marriage must be less than seven years.)

A minor must obtain consent from a parent or legal guardian

A parent or legal guardian must give sworn consent in person at the time of application, and must provide valid identification

If the parents of the minor are divorced, consent shall be given by the parent having legal custody of the minor as evidenced by court documents or divorce decree

If the parents of the minor are divorced and have been awarded joint custody of the minor, consent shall be given by the parent having physical custody of the minor the majority of the time as evidenced by court documents or divorce decree

If the minor is not in the custody of a parent, the legal guardian shall provide the consent and provide proof of guardianship by court order as well as an oath of affirmation

Certified copy of Birth Certificate

Current valid picture identification

Written authorization from a judge of the court exercising juvenile jurisdiction in the county where either party to the marriage resides; or a court commissioner as permitted by rule of the Judicial Council

As of May 14, 2019 applicants 15 years of age and younger cannot obtain a marriage license under Utah State law.

First Cousins

First cousins may marry if they are 65 years of age or older. If they are between 55 and 64 years of age, the district court in the county where they reside must find that either person is incapable of reproduction in order for them to be married.

Qualifications: Any persons related to each other within and not including the fifth degree of consanguinity, except for cousins as stated above, may not be married.

How Do I Change My Name?

We do not handle name changes through our office. We will send you a certified copy of your marriage license, which should be sufficient proof of your marriage to any government agency in the United States. International applicants may also need their certificate certified with an Apostille. See the Certified Copies page for ordering information. Name changes in the United States are typically handled by the Social Security Administration and the Driver’s License Division.
For more information about Certified Copies, see the "Certified Copies" web page.

Detailed instructions for name change

Quick Links

Marriage Licenses

Application Reminder

Certified Copies

Marriage FAQ's

Document FAQ's

Marriage Ceremonies

Become an Officiant

Find an Officiant

Office Hours & Location

Connect with Us