Utah County Agriculture Inspection

Hours: Monday - Thursday 8:30 am - 3:30 pm Closed for Lunch

Utah County Agriculture Inspection

The Agriculture Inspection Agency is a Utah state consumer protection agency which works in cooperation with Utah County for the benefit of Utah County citizens who use agricultural and food related products. 
                Agriculture Inspection helps protect public health and safety as well as agricultural markets by assuring consumers of clean, safe, wholesome, properly labeled and measured or weighed products by providing inspection, licensing, product registration and certification programs.

With a variety of programs, Agriculture Inspection works to protect, conserve and enhance Utah's agricultural and natural resources.

Please call 801-851-7792, 801-851-7793 or 801-851-7794 to schedule an appointment for Pesticide Testing.

Agriculture Inspection Services

The following services are available through the Utah County Agriculture Inspection Office. For detailed information about each service, visit the Utah State Department of Agriculture website.

Feed Program

Feed Program services include inspection, registration, and sampling of commercial feed products.

Fertilizer Program

The Fertilizer Program regulates the registration, distribution, sale, use, and storage of fertilizer products. It regulates and licenses fertilizer blenders and monitors the applicators that spray or apply fertilizer and takes samples for analysis.

Fruit and Vegetable Grading

During fruit season, fruit inspections are given at the request of packer and farmers. Fruits inspected include cherries (sour and sweet), apricots, peaches, and apples.

Insect Control and Plant Quarantine

The Utah Department of Agriculture and Food (UDAF) currently administers nine insect and plant quarantines, which require inspection and enforcement by the state entomologist.  Quarantines currently in effect are for European Corn Borer, Gypsy Moth, Apple Maggot, Plum Curculio, Cereal Leaf Beetle, Pine Shoot Beetle, Japanese Beetle, Mint Wilt and Karnal Bunt.
              Phytosanitary Certificates are issued under the direction of the state entomologist. These certificates allow Utah agriculture to ship plants and plant products to other states and foreign countries.

Noxious Weed Program

Surveys of serious weed infestations are conducted and control programs are developed through the county supervisors, county weed boards, and various landowning agencies. The weed specialist and the              inspectors work continually with extension and research personnel in encouraging the use of the most effective methods to control the more serious weeds.

Pesticide Registration and Pesticide Program

The Utah Department of Agriculture and Food regulates the registration and use of pesticides in Utah and is also the lead state agency for pesticide use enforcement under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA). Programs include the Worker Protection Program, Endangered Species Program, Ground Water/Pesticide Protection Program, Certification Program, and Pesticide Use Enforcement. The UDAF also monitors the registration and disposal of pesticides in Utah.  
              
                  
              Pesticide License Types:
                            
              	  
					  Commercial - For those applying any pesticide for hire.
                      Non-Commercial - For those applying restricted use pesticide for their employer only. (Eg. UDOT, college grounds, city parks, Mosquito Abatement, etc.)
                  Private - For farmers applying restricted chemicals on their own crops.
					
    
    		  License Cost : 
					
						$35 - One year commercial license
						$65 - Three year commercial license
						$20 - Three year non-commercial or private license
					
                    
              Procedures for acquiring a license :
              	
					Come to the Agriculture Inspection Office for books and tests.
					After studying, call for an appointment for testing.
					Bring payment at the time of testing.
					You are allowed three (3) tries testing before additional money is required.
					  
    
              How to dispose of unwanted pesticide :
              Pesticides that are restricted must be disposed of through a program offered by the Utah Department of Agriculture & Food (UDAF) or call Safety Clean (801) 252-2022 in Tooele, Utah, for information if no program is offered. For unrestricted pesticides, follow label disposal directions or call a local Waste Management Company for instructions.

Seed Laboratory

UDAF seed analysts and seed laboratory technician conduct tests on seed samples submitted by agricultural inspectors, seed companies, and other interested parties. Most common tests include percent germination, purity, and presence of noxious weeds, although a number of other tests are performed upon request. Inspectors monitor the seed trade by collecting representative samples for testing and by checking for proper labeling of all seed offered for sale and for the presence of noxious weeds and other undesirable factors.

Weed-Free Hay Certification

Both the BLM and the US Forest Service require all feed or hay transported on their properties to be certified weed seed-free.
      		How to certify hay and straw:
             Call the local Utah Department of Agriculture field office (Agriculture Inspection) to schedule inspection for noxious weed-free certification. A 10-working-day lead time may be required for the appointment to have hay or straw inspected for certification. The fee for inspection of hay or straw is $25.00 plus mileage. Hay tags are 10 cents each. Depending upon time required, the fee could be more.
         For Utah, Juab, North Sanpete, Wasatch & Tooele Counties, call: 801-851-7792.

Frequently Asked Questions

For these type of questions go to Extension Services department website. You can look around or click on their "Contact Us" link.

Agriculture Inspection Contacts

sherrielj@utahcounty.gov

darrelc@utahcounty.gov