IMPORTANT NOTICE:  (Updated November 2021)
					      Court calendars are still being evaluated and rescheduled as needed to comply with state and local orders. The following types of hearing will be IN-PERSON:

Bench Trials

Jury Trials

Suppression Hearings

Restitution Hearings

Small Claims Trials

Front Counter Business Hours: Monday - Friday 8:00 AM to 4:30 PM *Closed during the lunch hour from 12:00 to 1:00 PM

Phone : (801) 851-7200.   
						    Email :   justicecourt@utahcounty.gov 
						    Website:  https://www.utahcounty.gov/Dept/JustCrt/ 
						    Drop box:   Located  on the East side of the Health & Justice Building, just outside the center  doors.

Payment Options

Justice Court Home

Payment Options

Pay Online

We currently accept  Discover, Visa and MasterCard payments online. Click the appropriate link below to make a payment now.

All debit and credit card payments will be charged a 2.5% convenience fee with a minimum fee of $2.50.(+1.5% for foreign cards). No portion of the convenience fee is paid to Utah County or to any other Government entity. This fee is collected by a financial intermediary that processes the credit card transaction.

Pay Online and complete Online Traffic School      Pay Traffic Citation Online / No Traffic School      Pay Court Fines or Fees

Other Payment Options

Pay By Phone :

Payment with a Visa, MasterCard or Discover credit or debit card can be made over the phone by calling (385) 276-3194.  (You will need your case number or citation  number to make a payment). **NOTE: If you do NOT have your case number or  citation number you will need to contact the court at (801) 851-7200.

All debit and credit card payments will be charged a 2.5% convenience fee with a minimum fee of $2.50.(+1.5% for foreign cards). No portion of the convenience fee is paid to Utah County or to any other Government entity. This fee is collected by a financial intermediary that processes the credit card transaction.

Pay In Person :

Appear at the Utah County Justice Court located at 151 South University Ave., Suite 3300,  Provo, Utah, Monday-Friday between the hours of 8:00 AM and 4:30 PM.

Accepted forms of payment are cash, check, credit or debit card. (Visa, MasterCard & Discover)

All debit and credit card payments will be charged a 2.5% convenience fee with a minimum fee of $2.50.(+1.5% for foreign cards). No portion of the convenience fee is paid to Utah County or to any other Government entity. This fee is collected by a financial intermediary that processes the credit card transaction.

After Hours Dropbox

There is an After Hours Payment Drop Box located on the East side of the Health & Justice Building, just outside the center doors. Payments received in the drop box will be credited the next business day.

Pay By Mail :

Mail payment to: Utah County Justice Court, 151 South University Ave., Suite 3300,  Provo, Utah 84601Check or money order only, do not send cash!

Please include the case number or citation number with your payment. If you have more than one case number, include each case number.  Failure to make your payment by the due date can result in additional penalties being imposed.

Community Service

You may request that the Court allow you to perform community service in lieu of paying some, or all, of a fine for Class B and C Misdemeanors and Infractions. Community service will be credited at a rate of $10/hour. Please contact the court at 801-851-7200 to schedule an appearance before the judge if you would like to request community service in lieu of paying your fine. (UCA 76-3-301.7)

NOTE: Failure to make your fine payment as ordered by the Court can result in additional penalties being imposed.

Please include your case number with each payment to make sure that your payment gets credited to the right account. If you have more than one case number, include each case number.