Utah County Government

Home

County Information

County Government

County government is established to serve the local needs of the people or rural areas outside incorporated cities. Counties may levy and collect taxes, conduct elections, enforce laws, purchase and control property, erect buildings necessary for the use of the county, provide for public health and welfare, provide fire protection, license businesses and trades, establish and maintain schools and libraries and record property mortgages, deeds and other legal documents.

						  Our county government is headed by a board of county commissioners, consisting of three commissioners. One commissioner is elected the same year as the President of the United States. The other two commissioners are elected on the alternating election. Each commissioner is elected for a four-year term. One of the three commissioners is chosen chairperson. The board is responsible for all county officers and departments. They are full-time commissioners who meet with the public and county department officials. They also serve on various committees and boards which serve the residents of Utah County. Our Commissioners are :

COMMISSION SEAT A - AMELIA POWERS GARDNER

COMMISSION SEAT B - BRANDON GORDON

COMMISSION SEAT C - TOM SAKIEVICH

There are also nine other elected officials. They are elected for four year terms. The following are the nine offices:

ASSESSOR - BURT GARFIELD

The County Assessor determines the value of properties for the purpose 
						  of taxation.

ATTORNEY - JEFFREY S. GRAY

The County Attorney is the County Legal Officer. He represents the County 
						in all court cases and performs legal duties for the county.

AUDITOR - RODNEY W. MANN

The County Auditor investigates all financial claims against the county 
						and pays the bills. He or she examines the financial bonds kept by the 
						other county officials to see that accurate and complete records are maintained.

CLERK - AARON R. DAVIDSON

The County Clerk is in charge of the records of the county. He or she
						processes marriage licenses and passports and also conducts all elections 
						in Utah County pertaining to county, state or national offices.

JUSTICE COURT JUDGE - STEVAN RIDGE

RECORDER - ANDREA ALLEN

The County Recorder keeps the official records of the county, recording 
						mortgages, deeds, and other documents involving property. The Recorder 
						also maintains up-to-date maps which show current ownership of every section 
						of land.

SHERIFF - MIKE SMITH

The County Sheriff is the law enforcement officer in the county and is 
						responsible for the preservation of the peace. The Sheriff and deputies 
						make arrests and prepare legal papers for Sheriff's sale. The Sheriff 
						also oversees the County Jail.

SURVEYOR - ANTHONY CANTO

The County Surveyor identifies and protects the section corner monuments that define record title (real property) interests.  Through that process he helps to protect property rights.  His office also acts as a depository for all records of survey and is responsible for performing survey work for Utah County.

TREASURER - KIM JACKSON

The County Treasurer collects taxes and other monies due to the county. 
						The Treasurer is also in charge of taxing all property and turns over 
						property with delinquent taxes of more than five years to be sold.

Other County Departments

Agriculture Inspection
						  The Agriculture Inspection Agency is a Utah state consumer protection 
						  agency which works in cooperation with Utah County for the benefit of 
						  Utah County citizens who use agricultural and food related products.

Animal Control
						  The Utah County Animal Control is located in South Provo and serves 
						  the surrounding areas of Utah County.

Bookmobile
						  The Utah County Bookmobile provides popular current reading material 
						  to the residents of Utah County and thereby encourage the enjoyment 
						  of reading among all ages. The Bookmobile visits Birdseye, Santaquin, 
						  Lakeview, Springdell, Goshen, Genola, Spring Lake, Salem, Elk Ridge, 
						  Alpine, Cedar Fort, Cedar Pass, White Hills, Fairfield, Palmyra, Leland, 
						  and stops along the highways and in Spanish Fork Canyon. The fixed facility 
						  serves as the community library for Mapleton.

Children's Justice Center
						  The Children's Justice Center is a homelike facility which serves children 
						  and families who are experiencing the crisis and chaos that comes with 
						  the disclosure of significant physical or sexual abuse of a child.

Community Development
						  The Community Development Department provides the following services: 
						  Applications to the Utah County Planning Commission for General Plan 
						  amendments, zone text amendments, Zone Map changes, land subdivisions, 
						  conditional uses and waiver of subdivision requirement/record of survey 
						  maps.; Applications to the Utah County Board of Adjustment for variances, 
						  special exceptions, alleged errors; Applications for business licensing; 
						  Unincorporated property addresses; Applications for building permits 
						  and building inspection services; and, Enforcement of zoning ordinance 
						  regulations and construction code requirements.

County Fair
						  Utah County Fair

Fire Marshal
						  The Utah County Fire Marshal responsibilities are to enforce currently adopted fire codes and Utah County fire prevention ordinances; to provide technical assistance for any emergency situations throughout Utah County. Fire inspection of all business facilities within unincorporated Utah County for compliance to these adopted fire codes on a yearly basis. The Fire Marshal is also the primary arson investigator for fires within unincorporated Utah County and assists other cities within Utah County on fire investigations. Reviews and approves all building plans, sprinkler plans, propane plans and burn permits for compliance to adopted codes.

Foster Grandparents / Senior Companions
					  Volunteer Senior Citizens work under the supervision of trained professional 
					  staff in order to provide assistance, support, love and companionship 
					  to elderly adults to enable them to live independently and to children 
					  or teens with special or exceptional needs in daycare/preschool settings, 
					  public schools, BOCES centers, development centers, and residential 
					  treatment centers.

Housing Authority of Utah County
					  The Housing Authority of Utah County provides housing assistance to 
					  persons who meet program income guidelines. Income limits vary by program. 
					  The Housing Authority also provides affordable, safe and sanitary housing 
					  in the community. The Department of Housing and Urban Development furnishes 
					  the major funding. The Housing Authority is a political subdivision 
					  of the State of Utah.

Health Department
					  The Utah County Health Department seeks to prevent avoidable disease 
					  and injury, and promote health by monitoring the health of the community, 
					  and assuring conditions in which people can be healthy.

Human Resources
					  The County Human Resources Office provides full Human Resource services including 
					  payroll for approximately 1,000 Utah County employees.

Information Systems
					  The Information Systems department provides technology support to all 
					  Utah County government agencies. This support includes acquisition, 
					  deployment and management of computer-based workstations, software applications, 
					  local and wide-area network infrastructure, security, and information 
					  use policy.

Justice Court
					  The Utah County Justice Court is established by Utah County and has 
					  the authority to deal with class B and C misdemeanors, violations of 
					  ordinances, small claims, and infractions committed within County jurisdiction.

Public Works
					  The Utah County Public Works Department is a multi-service Department 
					  within County government operating in the areas of Administration, Buildings, 
					  Engineering, Mapping, Motor Pool, Parks, Roads, Special Projects, Surveying 
					  and Telecommunications.

USU Extension Service/4-H
			USU Cooperative Extension is your link to Utah State University. Cooperative Extension delivers research-based education and information to Utahns. These educational programs are delivered via a variety of methods and are offered through a federal, state and county partnership arrangement. USU Cooperative Extension has offices located in nearly every Utah county to provide unbiased research-based educational programs to enhance the quality of life of Utahns.

Links

Department Directory

County History

Historic County Courthouse

Historic Tree

Famous People

Recreation

County Parks

Convention and Visitors Bureau

Quick Facts

Utah County Area Map

Cities in Utah County

Homework Help/School Reports

Questions?

Contact Us

Email Us

Related News

News Archive

County Newsletter Archive

Connect with Us