IMPORTANT NOTICE:  (Updated October 2021)
					      Court calendars are still being evaluated and rescheduled as needed to comply with state and local orders. The following types of hearings will be IN-PERSON:

Bench Trials

Jury Trials

Suppression Hearings

Restitution Hearings

Small Claims Trials

All other Court hearings will continue to be by Video Teleconferencing using Cisco Webex, unless otherwise notified.

Front Counter Business Hours: Monday - Friday 8:00 AM to 4:30 PM *Closed during the lunch hour from 12:00 to 1:00 PM

Phone : (801) 851-7200.   
						    Email :   justicecourt@utahcounty.gov 
						    Website:  https://www.utahcounty.gov/Dept/JustCrt/ 
						    Drop box:   Located  on the East side of the Health & Justice Building, just outside the center  doors.

IMPORTANT INFORMATION

Administrative Order, from the Chief Justice, on behalf of the Utah Judicial Council:
Effective Friday, July 30, 2021, if a court is located in a county that has been designated by the Utah Department of Health as a moderate or high transmission index county, then Court patrons and Court personnel are required to wear a mask over their nose and mouth while in Court buildings.
Utah County is currently at High or Moderate Level of Transmission. See Transmission Index map by County.
                                              (Mask is required!!)
The Court will supply a mask to an individual who is not wearing a mask.

Utah County Justice Court

151 South University Avenue, Suite 3300, Provo, Utah 84601
              Phone 801-851-7200 | EMAIL justicecourt@utahcounty.gov

Court Hearings & Forms

Traffic School

Paying Court Fines and Fees

Acceptable Proof of Insurance

Expungements

Small Claims Court

Traffic School

Traffic school is available to those who qualify.
              
              You must decide your own eligibility to attend traffic school for the Utah County Justice Court. You have no more than (30) days from the date of the citation to complete the online Traffic School and submit to the Court a Traffic School Completion Certificate, Plea in Abeyance Agreement (signed by the Defendant) and pay the fine to the Court. (Both forms will print upon completion of the online traffic school).

Warning: If your fine payment and/or paperwork arrive at the court on the 31st day (or later) after you were ticketed, the Traffic School Completion Certificate will be void and a conviction will be entered on your driving record. Enhancement (late) fees will apply if your fine has not been paid.

Do I qualify for Traffic School?

You qualify if :

You have a valid driver's license now

At the time of your citation, you had a valid driver's license

Your citation is NOT for offenses related to a traffic accident or injury

You were NOT cited for going more than 20 mph over the speed limit

You were not cited for more than one violation

Within the last 18 months you have NOT taken Traffic School, a Defensive Driving course, or entered into a Plea in Abeyance agreement to either reduce or dismiss a traffic citation

Within the past 2 years you have NOT received three (3) or more moving violations, including this citation and any that have been dismissed or modified by any court

It has NOT been thirty (30) days or more since you received this citation

If you determine that you are eligible for traffic school you will be entering into a (9) month Plea in Abeyance with the Court. A Plea in Abeyance is an agreement that allows the court to dismiss your violation upon completion of certain criteria. When you enter into a Plea in Abeyance Agreement, you will sign a document that states you are giving up your constitutional rights to a trial and are entering a plea of guilty. This guilty plea is held for a specific amount of time (referred to as a period of probation), and at the end of the plea in abeyance period if you have complied with all of the conditions set forth in the agreement, your citation will be dismissed. (No points will be applied to your driving record).

However, if you fail to comply with the agreement and/or the court finds that you were not eligible to take traffic school, the court will reject your course completion certificate and the Plea in Abeyance agreement. The citation, and any associated points, will be placed on your driving record and any fees associated with the Plea in Abeyance and the online Traffic School will not be refunded.

What if I am not eligible for Traffic School?

If you determine that you are not eligible for traffic school your options are to pay the fine for your citation to the Court within (14) days or contact the Court within (14) days to contest the citation.

Register for Online Traffic School

Please select a language:

English            Español

Payment Options

Pay Online

We currently accept  Discover, Visa and MasterCard payments online. Click on the appropriate option below to make a payment now.

All debit and credit card payments will be charged a 2.5% convenience fee with a minimum fee of $2.50.(+1.5% for foreign cards).

No portion of the convenience fee is paid to Utah County or to any other Government entity. This fee is collected by a financial intermediary that processes the credit card transaction.

Pay Online and complete Online Traffic School      Pay Traffic Citation Online / No Traffic School      Pay Court Fines or Fees

Pay by Phone

Payment with a Visa, MasterCard or Discover credit or debit card can be made over the phone by calling (385) 276-3194. (You will need your case number or citation number to make a payment). **NOTE: If you do NOT have your case number or citation number you will need to contact the court at (801) 851-7200.

All debit and credit card payments will be charged a 2.5% convenience fee with a minimum fee of $2.50.(+1.5% for foreign cards).

No portion of the convenience fee is paid to Utah County or to any other Government entity. This fee is collected by a financial intermediary that processes the credit card transaction.

Pay in Person

Appear at the Utah County Justice Court located at 151 South University Ave., Suite 3300, Provo, Utah, Monday-Friday between the hours of 8:00 AM and 4:30 PM.

Accepted forms of payment are cash, check, credit or debit card. (Visa, MasterCard & Discover)

All debit and credit card payments will be charged a 2.5% convenience fee with a minimum fee of $2.50.(+1.5% for foreign cards).

No portion of the convenience fee is paid to Utah County or to any other Government entity. This fee is collected by a financial intermediary that processes the credit card transaction.

After Hours Dropbox

There is an After Hours Payment Drop Box located on the East side of the Health & Justice Building, just outside the center doors. Payments received in the drop box will be credited the next business day.

Pay By Mail

Mail payment to: Utah County Justice Court, 151 South University Ave., Suite 3300, Provo, Utah 84601
              Check or money order only, do not send cash!

Please include the case number or citation number with your payment. If you have more than one case number, include each case number. Failure to make your payment by the due date can result in additional penalties being imposed.

Returned Check Policy
			  Per UCA  7-15-1(2)(b) (ii) a $20.00 fee  will be assessed for all returned checks.
			Per UCA 7-15-1(4)(b) an additional $35.00 fee for “Collection Costs” may also be assessed if after notification, the returned check is not covered.

Future  Payments must be made in Cash or Money Order

Community Service

You may request that the Court allow you to perform community service in lieu of paying some, or all, of a fine for Class B and C Misdemeanors and Infractions.  Community service will be credited at a rate of $10/hour.  Please contact the court at 801-851-7200 to schedule an appearance before the judge if you would like to request community service in lieu of paying your fine.  (UCA 76-3-301.7)

NOTE: Failure to make your fine payment as ordered by the Court can result in additional penalties being imposed.

Please include your case number with each payment to make sure that your payment gets credited to the right account. If you have more than one case number, include each case number.

Acceptable Proof Of Insurance

A violation of "No Proof Of Insurance" can be dismissed when verification in the form of a letter is presented to the Court with the following required information.

Letter on Insurance Agency letterhead

Name of Insured.  If the name of insured is different than the person who received the citation, the letter must include an explanation indicating that the driver had the permission of the owner and is covered under that policy

Vehicle description (must match the vehicle on the citation)

Coverage was in effect on the date and time the citation was issued

Agent's signature

Citation or Case Number

You, or your agent, may present the letter to the Court by using one of the options listed below :

Email to : justicecourt@utahcounty.gov

In person or mail to : Utah County Justice Court, 151 South University Avenue, Suite 3300, Provo, Utah 84601

You are responsible to verify that the letter was received by the Court. Contact us at 801-851-7200 to verify that the letter was received.

If the requirements cannot be met, contact the Utah County Justice Court in person at the address listed above or call 801-851-7200

PLEASE NOTE : An insurance card or a declaration of benefits is NOT sufficient proof.

Bail Schedule

The bail schedule can be viewed at http://www.utcourts.gov.

Court Calendar

Important Notice:  Due to COVID-19 concerns, the court calendars are being evaluated and rescheduled as needed to comply with state and local orders.  

				Until further notice, all hearings will be held through video teleconferencing with Cisco Webex. The Utah State Supreme Court has not approved any live/in person hearings at this time. 

				The public is strongly encouraged to work with the court in a way other than in person (Webex, email, 
				telephone, etc). Electronic options are available to pay court fines/fees, file documents, take care of warrants and other court-related business.  

				Please contact the Court at (801) 851-7200 at least (7) business days prior to your hearing date to provide your email address and to verify whether your hearing will be held remotely or in person.

All cases at the Utah County Justice Court are processed on the state court computer system known as CORIS. The state court has made the court calendars available online. The calendars provided are for a two week period and are updated daily.

Court Calendar

Please note that when you click the button above, you will be taken to the Utah Courts website.

The Utah County Justice Court records all court proceedings.

Expungements

Please visit the Utah State Courts website for information on expungements.

Expunging Adult Criminal Records

Expunging Juvenile Criminal Records

The Utah County Justice Court will only accept cash or credit card (with ID) for expungement fees.
                  No personal checks will be accepted.

Small Claims Court

Filing Fees

Small claims cases are to recover money, and claims cannot exceed the jurisdictional limit.  That limit is set by the Legislature in Utah Code Section 78A-8-102. 
                      
                        $60 if the claim is less than $2,000
                        $100 if the claim is greater than $2,000 and less than $7,500
                        $185 if the claim is greater than $7,500 and less than $11,000

Visit https://www.utcourts.gov/howto/smallclaims/ for more information about Small Claims Court.

Where To File

A small claims case must be filed in the justice court where the defendant resides or where the claim arose (where the events happened).

If the defendant resides or the claim arose within a municipality and if the municipality has a justice court, file the case in the municipal justice court. If the municipality has no justice court, file the case in the county justice court. If the defendant resides or the claim arose in the unincorporated county, file the case in the county justice court.

Forms

For a fee, the court can provide the forms needed to file a small claims case or you can print the forms from the website listed below :

https://www.utcourts.gov/howto/smallclaims/#forms

Online Dispute Resolution Forms can be found at:  (Not for use until September 2021)
						
						https://www.utcourts.gov/smallclaimsodr/

If you have questions about which form(s) to use please contact the court at (801) 851-7200.

Mediation

The Utah County Justice Court has implemented a program whereby all small claims cases will be referred to mediation. Your first small claims court appearance will be for a mediation conference. If a resolution is not reached at mediation, the court will then schedule a trial date.

Mediation is confidential. Nothing that is said in mediation can be used against you in court. Utah Valley University and the Brigham Young University Law School both have mediation programs. Volunteers from these programs will be available at the courthouse to provide free mediation services to you. These individuals are not employed by, or associated with Utah County or the court, and are completely neutral.

Online Dispute Resolution Program

We are pleased to inform you that Utah County Justice Court will be moving to the Utah State Court's Online Dispute Resolution program in the near future (on or about September 14th, 2021). This will change the way small claims matters are handled.  ODR provides a platform for communication between parties, with the assistance of a facilitator, to attempt to negotiate a settlement.  If a settlement is reached the necessary documents can be filed with the court through the ODR program all without having to ever appear in court.  If a settlement is not reached, a trial will be scheduled.

If you are interested in learning more about ODR you can access the ODR information page at https://www.utcourts.gov/smallclaimsodr/ .